Monday morning,
we're back in the library studio.
I am your host, Craig Winn.
We're going to continue our series where
we're trying to understand the picture
that was painted in the last Mashal.
It is Proverbs thirty one,
and it was remarkable and that it is
about
Our King, the Messiah, the Chosen One,
the man who ultimately became our Savior
by fulfilling Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in the year of the
Thirty-Three C.E.
The very man that was counterfeited to
create the myth of Jesus.
he had a really low moment in his
life, and so he needed an intervention.
Yes,
it is true that the Son of God
and the Messiah was a really bad boy.
He, in his pursuit of Bathsheba,
not only took a married woman's life,
to be his and impregnated her.
But then he schemed to kill her husband
so that he could keep her.
And God did not like that one little
bit and dressed him down and they
engendered a serious timeout for bad
behavior.
And it was during that period that our
King who, well,
in the Psalm that he
revealed after God's dressing down,
where God said what you did was a
total rejection of who I am and my
testimony to you, my instructions to you.
And as a result of this,
really horrid things are going to happen
to you and to Israel.
You know, I cannot overlook this.
And so after everything did fall apart,
Had his daughter raped by his son.
Then one son killed another son.
And then that son led a coup against
him.
I mean, it was horrid what happened.
But he then had an intervention.
And that intervention came by way of
Yahowah's Amah.
Yahowah's Amah is a character that is
portrayed throughout the story.
She makes a number of appearances and
she's spoken of quite frequently
prophetically.
She could even be the voice of many
of the Mashal word pictures,
could in fact be she and her husband
talking to their son,
giving their son advice about Yahowah.
and his participation in the Covenant
family.
And her interaction with Dowd is the
subject of the final
word picture,
which is the basis of this series.
And we've gone over it in previous
programs.
And it's rather astonishing.
And it establishes this Amah,
this surrogate mother, this Amah of Dowd,
who is referred to as Ashar.
And Ashar
goes back to the days of Leah when
she gave birth to the tribe of Asher,
the first born of Asher,
and said that she would be remembered
forevermore as Ashar.
And then Dowd goes so far as to
say that this is the most extraordinary of
all women who have ever lived.
There are a number of other
Mashal and Mizmowr, Proverbs and Psalms,
regarding this moment.
And as we press on,
it even appears that there is a direct
correlation with the eighty-ninth Mizmowr,
which is something I'll begin exploring
later today.
I have,
so that you know where I stand in
all of this,
After we finish this review of Isaiah, fifty four
that speaks of this remarkable woman and
her role in building the covenant family.
Because of Israel's bad behavior and their
recalcitrance against Yahowah,
erasing his name, rejecting his covenant.
And failing to return to him,
Israel has gone a little better part,
excuse me,
of three thousand years without adding
anyone to the covenant family and
therefore anyone into heaven.
And so it is only during this time
that there is an awakening,
a recognition of Yahowah's name,
a realization that Dowd is the chosen one,
the Messiah, the Messiah.
son of God,
and the one who fulfilled Pesach by being
crucified in thirty-three CE,
and who took our guilt into Sheowl on
Matsah, also in thirty-three CE,
to enable Bikuwrym,
which is firstborn children.
So as we came to that recognition,
and we are pursuing that in here in
Yashayah,
which is a whole discussion about how
she's going to become productive again,
personalizing this through a single woman
who plays the lead role in accomplishing
this on behalf of Yisrael.
From there, we are actually going to
jump into what is the darkest episode
anywhere in the Towrah,
Prophets and Psalms.
It is Second Shemuel, eleven and twelve.
And I'm going to share with you what
Dowd did.
It was one of the hardest things I've
ever written.
I had thought at the time it would
be the hardest thing I would ever have
to do.
But it's something that we knew we had
to cover because in rabbinical lore,
Dowd is disqualified as being the
returning Messiah.
He is disqualified as being a son of
God.
He is disqualified as being the returning
King because of the malfeasance of this
moment.
And so we have to deal with it.
And in Christianity,
those who are somewhat thoughtful in
trying to defend the lie and the mythology
of their man, God, Jesus,
say that there had to be some miracle
birth and perfect person to fulfill this
promise.
They don't even know what the promise was.
They have no concept that he fulfilled
Passover and Matsah.
But nonetheless, they want perfection.
And because Dowd was so imperfect at this
moment,
he is automatically disqualified in their
minds.
And so it's something, again,
that we need to deal with for exactly
this same reason.
Now,
that brings us to the overall problem,
and I'm looking over my shoulder.
My wife likes to come and go,
which she's welcome to do,
but we have a second camera that actually
catches that door,
and we just as soon not have it
left open.
The fact is that there is a grotesque
misperception.
of what is presented in English
translations is perfect.
It Dowdsn't mean perfect at all.
The word is tamym,
and it actually is from the root tamam,
and it means to finish the job.
If you finish the job,
then you are living up to the expectations
that God has,
and you're totally qualified to do really
any mission that God wants done.
He just wants people that will have some
resolve and
and fortitude and are willing to see it
through.
And Dowd became that man.
So Dowd earned our respect by actually
coming to grips with who he was and
what he represents and what he needed to
accomplish in his second of three lives to
fulfill Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
And he did.
And there is an enormous amount of proof
in this regard.
But we're going to go through his
meltdown.
And then following that,
I'm going to share with you the most
horrible thing that I thought I'd ever
see.
Far worse than Dowd's malfeasance in that
whole affair, which is quite graphic.
Dowd is angry at God for leaving him.
for blaming him, for pretending,
from Dowd's point of view,
that he was somehow worse than everybody
else.
From his point of view,
everybody was terrible.
So, you know, what he did,
he didn't think deserved the kind of
rebuke that he received from God.
And he wrote the fifty-first Mashal,
not Mashal, but Mizmowr, psalm,
in a really bad mood.
but I think it's important for you to
know how far he fell.
Following that,
there was an amazing intervention,
and I'm going to ultimately share the
second part of the intervention because
the meeting between Dowd and his surrogate
mother, Leah, the Ashar,
got his attention and earned his respect,
sobered him up,
But it was the subsequent meeting that
made the biggest difference.
And it was delivered by another
individual.
And then I'm going to share the text
with that, which is a very familiar text.
It's just that we didn't know who the
delivery person was the last time we
reviewed it.
So we'll go through that.
And I want to...
leave on a really upbeat note uh in
this whole uh process so we're going to
cover the hundred and sixteenth Mizmowr
which is a celebration of Dowd getting it
right again of him not only recognizing
who he is and what he needs to
do but laying it all out and saying
i'm happy to do it this is what
i'm going to accomplish i am going to
see it through and it's going to be
glorious
So we have quite the process here to
go through.
When we encounter something that is
profound in terms of what it adds to
our understanding of God's story,
I don't like to tease.
My view is if God's going to take
the time to tell us something that's this
insightful, this compelling,
the least we can do is see it
all the way through and understand all of
the implications.
And that's precisely what we're going to
do.
So I want to pick up the story
where we were in our last program.
This would have been on Friday evening.
And it reads,
during a brief moment of time.
That's kind of funny.
From God's point of view,
I'm sure it was.
It could have been the blink of an
eye.
Yeah.
In reality, it was a very,
very long time, thousands of years.
But time Dowdsn't move the same for all
of us,
and the seventh dimension time is whatever
you'd like it to be.
So during a brief moment in time,
it's ba rega',
in a disturbing instant and for a little
while, as trifling and unworthy,
and Israel certainly had become that.
God says, I left you.
I rejected and I released you.
It's important for us to understand
because Jews have a tendency to think that
God is still protecting them,
that God is right there with them,
that they can go to their western wall
and
bob their heads up and down and put
a piece of paper between the cracks and
God's listening to their prayers and that
he is involved in their day-to-day lives
and nothing can be further from the truth.
God's very clear.
I left you.
I mean,
Azab is not a word that anybody has
any trouble trying to translate.
It means to reject, to release,
to forsake, to abandon.
It's
Pretty clear cut.
I wrote a whole book on Azab because
that's the nature of the prophet Howsha.
The whole story from beginning to end in
Howsha is about being divorced.
God forsaking and rejecting Israel for
cheating on him religiously.
So here during a brief moment in time,
which turned out to be thousands of years,
I left you, I Azab.
But as a tremendous favor and sign of
great compassion and mercy,
I will gather you in a harvest.
So this, boy, you know,
they talk about telescoping.
The idea of you take this big,
huge story in this big swath of time
and God says, there it is.
You know, you were really,
really bad and I divorced you.
I left you because you were unworthy and
just worthless,
insufficient and inadequate.
And now, well,
as a tremendous favor and sign of great
compassion and mercy,
I'm going to return and gather you in
a harvest.
That harvest will be next.
The harvest will be Shabuwah,
followed by the gleaning of Taruw'ah,
followed by the purging of the religiosity
of a remnant of Yisrael on the Shabat
of Shabat.
Taruw'ah and year six thousand year twenty
thirty three with the sacrifice of the
Adamah Parah.
When then ten days later,
with the people purged and prepared,
the witness Yahowah returned with the
Messiah, his beloved son.
So that is what is being described here.
Yashayah, Isaiah fifty four seven.
So there were a number of rega,
disturbing instances that served to sever
the relationship between Yahowah and
Yahuwdym.
And these became particularly frequent,
very antagonistic and increasingly
deplorable during the Exodus.
Ultimately,
the divorce proceedings were made manifest
in Howsha when Yahowah rejected Yisrael for
forsaking his Towrah guidance and his
Beryth relationship so that they could
continue to be religious.
And so it is only as a result
of God's nature that this separation can
be reconciled.
But even then,
this great favor to us happens.
as an unmistakable display of his
compassion and mercy,
will only occur when Yisrael shub for
shub, when they return to him.
So God is on record saying that he
is committed to gathering Yisrael in one
last time,
and he will collect a remnant of his
people from around the world on Taruw'ah.
This will be following the Shabuwah harvest
some seven years after it.
Some of these individuals will be
harvested.
Others will be purged of their guilt when
God brings them around the Temple Mount.
from around the world so that they might
benefit from the sacrifice of the Adamah
Parah, all with the same objective.
So numerous times Yahowah has or will
release a torrent of waters,
which is how he purges his people on
this occasion.
You can read the story in Numbers five
about the sacrifice of the Adamah Parah
and Numbers nineteen as conducted as a
dress rehearsal by Elyah
Elijah so many years ago, in fact,
two thousand eight hundred and eighty
eight, to be exact,
from the moment that he will reenact that
sacrifice.
And it's all aimed at resolving the
discordant notes men and women have been
singing relative to God.
This began with the flood when the
religious were washed away.
It occurred again during the Exodus to
differentiate Yahowah's life
affirming nature from the diabolical
disputes of the people.
And it will reoccur one last time on
Taruw'ah when a torrent of water will be
released from the Temple Mount to prepare
this final remnant of Yisrael to receive
their king.
In between these episodes,
Yahowah has remained hidden the most.
Even today,
fewer than one in a million people
acknowledge him.
Fortunately,
with the advent of Yada Yahowah and the
thirty five books that are free at Yada
Yahowah dot com and this program that streams
on some fifteen different accounts and
channels, the Yahowah blog.
It's begun to change.
There are many, particularly Israelites,
who are coming home to Yahowah.
So come Taruw'ah, Kipurym,
and Sukah in year six thousand.
Yeah,
the relationship is indeed going to be
restored.
So the text reads,
in a furious torrent of discordant
outbursts,
struggling with overwhelming dissension in
the agreed relationship.
I concealed my presence and appearance
from you.
However, with loyal love,
unfailing kindness, enduring devotion,
and unmitigated favoritism throughout
time,
I will compassionately reestablish a
loving relationship with you, he, Yahowah,
says, of your ga'al, redeemer.
Yashayah Isaiah, fifty-four, eight.
Now,
you could read this as the Yahowah is
your...
but it Dowdsn't make sense to me because
that is a title that is perfectly fitting
for Dowd,
who is the most Yahuwd of all Yahuwd,
and he is therefore kinsman,
and he is the redeemer by having fulfilled
Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in year four thousand years,
thirty-three CE.
So I think that God is...
acclaiming what his son will achieve.
So it is through loyal love and unfailing
kindness, just as God said a moment ago,
favoritism throughout time,
that he will reestablish this
relationship.
Out of the womb, he will.
I will express my affection and love
towards you, Yahowah says, of your Ga'al,
Redeemer.
Once again,
it would be natural to conclude that
Yahowah, as I've mentioned,
is saying that He is our Ga'al,
but I think it's more in keeping with
God's nature to say that His unmitigated
favoritism and enduring love for us are
collectively expressed through His chosen
implement, His beloved Dowd.
who, yes, is our kinsman redeemer.
But either way,
reconciliation is imminent and it's
assured, although not for most.
Rather than the waters of the flood ending
life,
next time there is a massive release of
water,
these waters are going to be restorative.
And we have Yahowah's word on it.
This is what he reported.
This for me is in contrast to the
waters of Noach, the trustworthy guide,
which for the benefit of the relationship,
I made the promise that the waters
associated with Noach would no longer pass
over the earth.
And it's actually a region of the earth
where they were previously.
And this way, therefore,
I made a promise to restrain from being
provoked to anger against you and from
rebuking and reprimanding you.
Yashayah, Isaiah, fifty-four nine. Well,
God Dowds a lot of reprimanding. But he,
seems to be very incensed by Israel's horrid behaviour.
uh, but he did not combine that with a release of flood waters
And so in this way this statement is reality.
what we have learned is that the primary
way that god has mitigated his frustration
with humankind is to distance himself from
his people and from the earth just as
he revealed through Howsha he returned to
heaven and he's going to remain there
until such time as his people begin to
return to him God is now
An absentee landlord,
if you want to put it in those
terms.
I know there's a lot of people that
think that God answers prayer and that God
is listening to them and God is guiding
and intervening with their lives.
It's just not true.
God says otherwise.
God's very clear in saying that during the
divorce proceedings that he was leaving.
And he didn't say that he was going
to come back when somebody created a false
God, a man who was a God,
a man God,
so weak that men could kill this man
God.
He didn't say he was going to come
back at that time.
That'd be nonsense.
He says, no, when you return to me,
speaking to Yisrael, who he was divorcing,
I'll return to you.
It's the message that we read in Yirmayah,
verse thirty-one.
Reaffirmation of the covenant between
Yisrael and Yahuwdym,
that God's going to reaffirm it,
but he is not going to do so
until Yisrael returns to him.
It is Shuwb, which is returned for Shuwb,
or no Shuwb.
So that is how God has...
mitigated his expressions of frustration
and therefore you could read all of the
rebukes as having been um conveyed by no
uh later than uh Malaki four forty-seven bce
therefore during all of this time uh God
has
He just held his tongue.
There was no reason for him to say
anything directly.
He had already said it all.
Now moving on,
the mountains of God from Choreb to Mowryah
have been corrupted, of course,
by the religious.
But no matter how far removed humanity has
become from the intent of those mounts,
Yahowah's agenda will not be thwarted.
The covenant will be reaffirmed,
and it will be reaffirmed as it was
presented on Mount Choreb and then enabled
on Mount Mowryah,
because these are what Yahowah desires.
As a result,
the mountains may yield to the touch,
and the hills might be toppled and
troubled.
But my love, kindness,
and enduring favoritism,
it will not cease to be with you.
Then my covenant reconciliation will not
be shaken or slip away, he, Yahowah,
says of Racham,
the one most loving and compassionate
toward you.
Yashayah Isaiah.
Therefore, God's saying, yeah,
bad things are going to happen,
both to Choreb,
which has a chain-link fence all the way
around it,
and an Islamic enclave that Dowdsn't want
anybody to get anywhere near it, because,
of course, it repudiates Islam.
And you see two horrible scars on the
Temple Mount.
One, the Dome of the Hooffy print,
which is the
most absurd and ridiculous tale in the
history of Islam.
And then Al-Aqsa Mosque,
which is the inspiration for terrorist
attacks.
And so these terrible scars on the Temple
Mount will be removed.
They will be toppled.
They will no longer produce such a
troubling effect because, yeah,
it was enduring favoritism.
It's going to return.
And God may have distanced himself.
Indeed, he has.
But it Dowdsn't mean that he has ceased
to care.
And ultimately,
it's the covenant relationship that means
the most to him.
And there's going to be reconciliation.
There will be Beryth Shalowm.
There will be blessings.
There will be safety.
There will be resolution and harmony.
in the family.
It will not ultimately slip all the way,
be removed,
because then the entire human experience
would be for naught.
And this is what Yahowah was saying as
the most loving and compassionate towards
his people.
So when Yahowah said that the barren woman
would conceive and that her children would
become numerous,
he was addressing her contribution to the
covenant family that had been childless
for all of those many centuries,
thirty-five centuries,
as a matter of fact.
And so it is just now that the
covenant is being filled again.
The children are being conceived within
God's breath.
And that is what the
barren woman is all about and why she
is to be celebrated for her role in
bringing so many wonderful people into the
covenant.
So while there were no entrance for, well,
at least a score of centuries and probably
for thirty five.
Today,
thanks that in large part to all that
she has had to offer and contribute.
Well,
it's a different story that is being
written.
All right, so at this point,
I'd like to present two additional Mizmowr.
The first occurs prior to the Amah's visit
and depicts Dowd's reaction to Yahowah's
disapproval.
The second was recorded after we were
given the opportunity to meet with Dowd
and share our concerns.
So what we're going to have here is
that I'm going to
share what actually happened three
thousand years ago and then i want to
share as i have mentioned the fifty first
Mashal i will then go into the hundred
and sixteenth and then i'm going to
reprise one that will be shared from a
perspective that none of us have ever
considered previously that's pertinent
regarding all of this
So it's time now that we consider what
went wrong all those many years ago.
Now, this is already unpleasant.
So it's going to be a little quicker
and easier to digest with the minimal
amplification,
which is what I'm going to do.
I did that throughout this.
This is not a teaching moment in the
sense of we can glean something here and
say, well,
let's celebrate what we're learning.
God is teaching us how to emulate.
someone doing something marvelous for the
covenant.
That is not what this is.
The narrative itself is harsh.
And it begins by condemning political
despots, all of them, and warmongers.
Then it says that Dowd was shirking his
responsibility as the protector of his
people.
He had dispatched every able man to
besiege a civilian community and plunder
it, except himself.
He stayed behind.
This battle was not heroic.
The verbs that were chosen to depict the
assault read,
as I'm going to present them,
and that's not pleasant at all.
This is really embarrassing for Dowd,
for Israel.
It was tragically embarrassing for God.
And when I go through this,
it's because I go where the words lead.
God would not have told us this story
in such detail if he did not want
us to know it.
We have to know that his beloved son,
our Messiah and King,
who became our savior,
was terribly sullied and that it would
take a intervention like the world had
never seen to resolve his deplorable
mindset.
So what we find is that Dowd was
lounging around in bed during the day.
He, in this case,
got antsy and he decided to get up
and spy on his neighbor around sunset.
And so a man derelict in his duty
and lethargic literally became a voyeur
and then a provocateur.
It's little wonder that Yahowah values work
and defines tamym, perfection,
as perfection.
Completing the job.
God's not expecting us to be perfect.
Just to finish the mission that needs to
be accomplished for there to be resolution
of our separation of our azab.
All right,
I'm going to share this with you again.
It's not done in a typical amplified
fashion.
We'll get through it a little more
unscathed, I hope, that way.
But I will still take the time on
key words to share them with you so
that you know the terms that God chose.
And in particular,
the names of the people in this story,
they're exceptional.
So it came to be in the return
of the year.
That would be the start of the year.
When the heads of governments go out and
Dowd dispatched Yow'ab, Father Yahowah,
and his co-workers, servants,
and slaves with him,
even the whole of Israel.
So you got the point.
Dowd's now acting like any other king.
He's gone from
Yahuwdym, to gowym.
And like all these other kings around
Israel, they were, you know, come spring,
they want to go off and play war.
We're going to go dispatch the troops.
And in a kingdom,
one person has free will and everybody
else is subservient.
So everybody in a kingdom is essentially a
slave.
They're a servant of the king.
And so that's what Israel had become.
Now, I have said this before,
and I appreciate Yahowah affirming this in
the introduction to this story.
Men and women are capable of being good
or bad, and usually both individually.
But collectively, humankind is always bad.
Every story of every significant
institution, nation,
or empire
is that they have done this very thing.
They've dispatched armies to plunder their
neighbors, to enslave people,
to deprive most people of their rights.
And so the larger the institution,
the religion, the nation, the empire,
the more power is concentrated with one
person as they are in all monarchies or
any communist country.
the worse they become.
We're witnessing this in America now with
the concentration of power by Donald
Trump, who was demonically inspired.
And with his every word and deed,
America becomes more despicable.
So it came to be in the return
of the year when the heads of governments
go out.
Dowd dispatches.
Yow'ab, father of Yahowah,
and his co-workers, servants,
and slaves with him,
even the whole of Israel.
And they ravaged and they destroyed,
corrupting and ruining,
even spoiling and laying waste to the sons
of 'Amown,
which means everything pertaining to
people.
So they laid siege to Rabah,
which means greatest,
while Dowd remained seated.
in Jerusalem,
the source of guidance on reconciliation.
That was worth mentioning.
This happens to be from Shamuw’el,
listen to God, second Samuel, eleven one.
That was worth mentioning because of two
things.
Previously,
when there had been a battle to fight,
Dowd led the fight.
protected him with Malak,
and he led by example when it came
to defending Israel.
I'm not sure this was a defensive battle.
Sure, the 'Amown were harsh on Israel,
but they were going off trying to plunder
them and ruin the city.
And this time, Dowd didn't go.
He stayed at home.
And that's uncommon in this time where the
heads of empires went out,
they led their militaries.
It's the thing that pharaohs, for example,
have got depicted on every graphic wall as
they're leading the charge.
Now, certainly they weren't in the front,
but they were still with the troops and
leading the troops in battle.
Dowd was not.
That is not a way for a king,
particularly at this time,
during the respect of his people's
current.
It would be like President Bonespur having
six exemptions from military service
during the Vietnam period on a lie and
then sending the troops out to be pirates
and thugs and murderers and all manner of
bad behavior.
So it happened during evening time,
around sundown,
when Dowd arose from his bed.
You catch that?
Dowd got up off of his bed as
the sun was going down.
This means he had been in his bed
during the day.
His troops, all of Israel, it says,
were out fighting,
and he was lounging around in bed during
the day.
Now,
if you want to compare that to God's
frustration with Adam,
should have been three thousand years
prior to this,
for being lethargic and not engaging,
we have the same situation, do we not?
This is hard on Dowd,
and I'm going to be hard on him.
Tell it like it is.
I'm not going to pull punches.
So this is the man I've come to
love and respect more than any other.
But he was very,
very bad at this time and for a
while thereafter.
And so we need to deal with it
and we need to acknowledge how bad it
was.
So he was walking on the roof of
the king's house.
as he saw a woman bathing from the
top of the roof.
The woman's outward appearance was very
good, especially pleasing and desirable.
He made this decision based solely on the
way she looked as he was spying on
her.
after napping during the day,
as his troops were fighting for their
lives.
Then Dowd, he set out,
and he inquired about approaching the
woman.
He asked, isn't this Bathsheba,
promised daughter?
The daughter of Ely'am,
we are God's people,
and the wife of
'Uwryah, Yahowah's light.
The Chity, which means fearsome.
She wasn't even a Yahuwd.
So, Dowd dispatched mal'akym.
Now we can read that as ordinary
messenger,
somebody that was part of his household
staff.
We can say that Dowd actually had
influence over malak,
spiritual messengers.
The text Dowds not say,
but I think it's likely that these were
human messengers.
malak means messenger.
The fact that the term is normally used
in conjunction with the heavenly host Dowds
not mean it has to be all the
time.
But it's an interesting choice of words,
is it not?
He dispatched Mal'akym, messengers.
Now, keep in mind,
he's already done the reconnaissance.
He's gone out and he has verified that
this woman that he saw naked was the
wife of a man named Light of Yah.
So he knows what he's doing.
There is no mistake here.
He did that himself.
Then,
rather than going and grabbing her
himself, he dispatched messengers.
And he grasped hold of her and took
her.
So he's out now with at least two
others.
And the first thing he did is Lecoq.
He grabbed her.
He took her.
And she was brought to him.
And he lay with her, sleeping with her.
No chit-chat.
No getting to know her.
No romancing.
No candlelight dinner.
This is, he saw her.
He inquired and learned that she was
another man's wife.
He went out with Malak and he took
her.
Then, well, euphemistically,
he slept with her,
but I don't think there was much sleeping.
Do you?
Wham, bam, thank you, ma'am,
is what it looked like.
I'm not sure there was a thank you,
ma'am,
but the rest of it is true enough.
Now, she had been separate, set apart,
from having been unclean
and defiled,
even offensive and unacceptable.
Therefore, she returned to her house.
Shamuw’el, listen to God.
Two Samuel. what do you think God's saying?
She had been separate for having been
unclean and defiled,
even offensive and unacceptable.
Therefore, she returned to her house.
Then the woman and wife became aware that
she was pregnant and she set out so
that she could inform Dowd.
And she said, I'm pregnant.
Listen to God, two Samuel, eleven five.
What happened with the great Gibowr,
the courageous defender of his people?
Dowd went from lounging around to sleeping
around while his people were plundering a
neighbor on his orders.
He came to Jerusalem with ten concubines
and seven wives and we're told that he
had already added considerably to both
even before spying upon and lusting over
the site of Bathsheba.
He was fully aware that she was the
daughter of a good man and the wife
of an even better one,
a soldier no less,
who was out risking his life for king
and kingdom.
Getting past the realization that Dowd has
sent everyone off to war while he spends
the day in bed,
we're told that he dispatched Mal'akym,
I don't know if these are spiritual
messengers,
as the title would normally imply,
or just human messengers,
but to retrieve the wife of another man
for a sexual liaison.
I'm pretty sure no matter what your
definition,
that's not part of their job description.
He compromised them too.
There was no small talk.
No going out for lamb and Matsah.
Just slam, bam, no thank you, ma'am.
Now you can make of the resulting
nomenclature what you will.
But it's important that you know,
because we were told,
that
The normal word for menstruation, nida,
was not used.
She wasn't having her menses, nope.
What was used instead was tuma.
And it says that Bathsheba was ethically,
religiously,
or sexually defiled and impure.
It wasn't the time of month.
It was her prior activity.
So also telling in this regard,
it is very rare for a woman to
conceive immediately after her
menstruation.
Because
Ovulation typically occurs twelve to
fourteen days before the next period,
and sperm seldom survive more than five
days in the reproductive tract.
So had she been on her period,
if that's how you want to read Tuma,
which is really inappropriate because it
speaks of ethical and religious sexual
defilement, not nida menstruation,
she couldn't have gotten pregnant under
those circumstances.
And that, of course,
leaves the door open for other
possibilities,
none of which are particularly kind to
Bathsheba's reputation.
Therefore, while Bathsheba was pretty,
she was far from good.
We do not know the nature of her
indiscretion.
but it was sufficiently concerning that
she was trying to wash away the
incriminating evidence,
physically or emotionally.
And what happened next is tantamount to
abduction and potentially worse.
Dowd ordered envoys to Lakosh,
grab hold of her,
at which point the King Lakosh took her.
with the subject going from plural to
singular, so he individually grabbed her.
There was no opportunity for or request
for consent.
The facts and evidence are that he spied
out on her.
He established her identity.
He sent staff to abduct her.
He then personally grabbed hold of her.
He had sex with her,
which is to suggest that he might as
well have raped her.
Well,
the selected terminology strongly and
immediately suggests and infer that
This wasn't Bathsheba's first affair.
There is another concerning factor,
as we will learn.
When her husband returned from battle,
he avoids her completely.
He has a reason for doing so,
but it's not even a hello, sweetheart.
Check in to see how you're doing.
Is everything okay?
Do you need anything while I'm back in
town?
None of that occurred.
Making matters worse,
she goes back home and determines that she
is pregnant.
The result,
for reasons previously mentioned,
further undercuts Bathsheba's character.
A child could well have been that of
another man,
explaining why she was trying to wash away
her Tuma transgression.
Not saying that is certain,
but it's certainly a possibility.
But now after what Dowd has done,
she schemes to turn her shame into an
opportunity.
She is an opportunist here.
She tells the king that she's pregnant,
perhaps inferring that it was his child
without actually saying so.
She didn't say,
I'm pregnant with your child.
She just says, I'm pregnant.
She went from certain scorned and outcast
queen of the castle.
And while that's bad,
it's Dowd's response that was particularly
nefarious.
His retort to his indiscretion
was to scheme his way out of
responsibility.
There was no, oh, sweetheart,
you're the love of my life.
If you're pregnant, isn't that wonderful?
We're going to have a royal child and
you'll be my queen and I'll care for
you and protect you.
No, that wasn't his response at all.
So Dowd sent a dispatch to Yow'ab.
Father Yahowah, send to me 'Uwryah,
Yah's light, the Chity, fearsome.
And Yow'ab sent 'Uwryah to Dowd.
Pretty straightforward.
I want him, send him to me.
You know,
kings don't have to explain themselves.
This one didn't.
'Uwryah, and 'Uwr means light in Hebrew.
Yah, of course, is short for Yahowah.
So it's Yah's light.
Came to him, don't ask,
inquiring if Yow'ab was satisfied and
content.
And were the people at peace?
Also,
was the war prosperous and satisfactory?
The moment we're going to see that every
one of the verbs
is simply a Shalowm.
Very, very odd choice, but it's telling.
Then Dowd said to 'Uwryah,
go down to your house, wash your feet.
So 'Uwryah withdrew from the king's house
and coming out, following him,
a portion of something of the king.
That's eleven eight.
But 'Uwryah lay down at the door of
the king's house with all of the servants,
workers, and slaves of his lord.
He did not go down to his house.
So they informed Dowd saying,
'Uwryah did not go down to his house.
Dowd said to 'Uwryah,
have you not come from a journey?
Why did you not go down to your
house?
Of course, what is Dowd trying to do?
He's scheming.
If he can get 'Uwryah and Bathsheba to,
you know,
then the child can be credited to 'Uwryah,
and he's out of the hot seat.
He had a little hot-tit-a with a married
woman, and she got pregnant,
and he's covering up the evidence.
He's saying, oh, you see, congratulations.
on the delightful birth of your son to
another man who had nothing to do with
it,
who wasn't even in town at the time.
Anyway, it's odd, as I have mentioned,
that Dowd would use Shalowm in his query
regarding the attitude of his lead
general.
Why would you say is the king Shalowm?
He's out fighting a war.
The Israelites conducting the siege were
also, are they Shalowm?
Excuse me, they're at war.
Shalowm means peace, reconciled.
Or he said, you know,
how's the status of the conflict?
Why I sent you out to plunder a
town, is it going peacefully?
I mean,
how could you be that out of touch
with reality?
That you would use Shalowm in all three
of those circumstances.
Now, since Shalowm, as we know,
is typically rendered peace,
it shows that the king was disconnected
from reality,
certainly of the war that they were
fighting for him.
By using Shalowm in the midst of conflict,
we not only find the king corrupting one
of God's most revered terms, Shalowm,
But we also see his vulnerability and his
insecurity.
You see,
by using it as my general Shalowm,
he's worried, and for good reasons,
that Yow'ab and his subjects had come to
disrespect him for hanging around in his
castle while they are out, you know,
in the vulnerable fighting for him.
Is everybody okay?
Everybody content?
Everybody satisfied?
Is it going okay out there?
So while disappointing,
that's the only rational explanation for
the improper use of the reconciling verb.
Also curious,
we do not know the nature of the
maseth.
That is the portion that Dowd has sent
to follow 'Uwryah.
It is translated burden, mess, collection,
flame, gift, oblation, reward, and sign.
And it's also said to mean portion,
present, offering, or tribute.
Now, if the latter,
it was meant either as a bribe or
as a way for Dowd to publicly feign
respect for the man he was about to
kill.
Either way, it's inappropriate.
Unable to manage his affairs,
Dowd's scheme flopped.
He wanted this honorable soldier to have
sex with his wife so that he could
be lured into believing that the child was
his.
But as it would transpire,
'Uwryah showed no interest in his home or
his wife.
And considering the evidence at our
disposal,
I think that he knew what we have
surmised.
She wasn't a prize,
and he hadn't been the last man in
his home or his bed.
He had gone, had he gone home,
I think that sparks would have flown,
but not of the loving kind.
Nevertheless,
'Uwryah was an exceptional man.
He was likely covenant.
He exhibited exemplary character
throughout.
The lone stalwart in this whole story.
There was only one.
And after hearing his response,
had Dowd been of sound mind,
he would have broken down.
He would have wept.
This is what comes next.
'Uwryah, the light of Yah, said to Dowd,
the beloved, the ark, Yisrael,
and Yahuwdah dwell in Sukkoth, shelters,
along with my lord, Yow'ab,
in addition to the servants of my lord,
bivouacked under siege in the presence of
open terrain.
So am I myself,
supposed to go to my home to eat,
to drink, and to lay with my wife?
As you live and as your soul lives,
I will not act this way or do
this thing.
Second Samuel, eleven, eleven.
Then Dowd said to 'Uwryah,
stay here this day also,
and tomorrow I'll send you back.
So 'Uwryah remained in Jerusalem that day
and through the following day.
Can you imagine what he's thinking?
He wants me to go home and sleep
with my wife.
I told him I wouldn't do it.
And he says, well,
I'm going to send you back.
But stay another day with me,
then I'll send you back.
You think just maybe he's saying,
I suspect something really odd is going on
here since I'm not your top general,
since I'm not a messenger reporting on the
war,
since you called me out of nowhere for
this meeting and you haven't bothered to
explain why you called it,
why you wanted me to go to my
wife and why you're now want me to
come over as we see for dinner and
drinks.
even after I told you that I wouldn't
do such a thing.
I mean,
this is really weird in a very bad
sort of way.
Dowd summoned him again and Dowd ate in
his presence and he drank excessively so
that he caused even the man himself to
be drunk.
And he went out
in the early evening to lay down on
his bed with the servants of his Lord,
but to his house he did not descend.
Wow,
this was a contrast between good and bad
for sure, right and wrong.
And our King was on the right,
wrong side of this.
After a man named Light of Yah stood
up for the covenant for Yisrael,
For the king,
foregoing the comforts of home by
respecting that his comrades were out in
the elements away from home and exposed to
the enemy,
Dowd flaunted his situation by eating and
drinking to excess.
Can you imagine?
I mean,
Dowd's response was both callous and
hedonistic.
He was the furthest thing from an exemplar
at this moment.
And in fact,
he was validating all of my prior
conclusions that he had been drinking to
excess and he did so to deaden his
conscience to what he had become.
But of course that wasn't the worst of
it, not by a long shot.
It transpired in the morning.
God,
I hate to read this letter to you.
Dowd wrote a letter.
It was written to Yow'ab.
It was sent by the hand of 'Uwryah.
In the letter,
he wrote so as to say,
it is imperative that you, Yow'ab,
ascribe to and permit this.
Placing 'Uwryah, Mul,
cut off as if a removed foreskin.
In direct proximity to the fiercest and
most severe,
the most obstinate combatants in the
battle.
Then retreat from him,
turning on him from behind his back,
so that he will be struck down and
wounded, then die.
Samuel, listen to God.
Two Samuel, eleven, fifteen.
You probably noted that I shared the
Hebrew origin of the text that was
underlying this written letter.
including both Yahab and Mo.
And I did so because I wanted you
to know that I'm accurately reporting the
bad news.
Dowd wanted 'Uwryah, the light of Yah,
snuffed out and tossed away like one of
the two hundred Philistine foreskins he
used to acquire Michel from Sha'uwl.
And he was insistent that Yow'ab,
father of Yahowah,
bend his will to his own and not
only permit this atrocity,
but participate in it,
making Yow'ab an accessory to murder.
Makes my stomach turn, my head throb.
It's heartbreaking.
So it came to be as Yow'ab was
observing, closely examining,
and carefully considering the approach to
the city, he assigned 'Uwryah,
the light of Yah,
to the place where he knew that the
most physically strong and vigorous men
would be there.
When the men came out of the city
and fought against Yow'ab,
and some of the people among the servants
of Dowd fell.
Then 'Uwryah the Chitti, he also died.
Second Samuel, eleven, seventeen.
Many men were deliberately sacrificed and
died,
including one who was essentially
assassinated.
so that a cowardly, self-indulgent,
debauched drunkard could add another man's
wife to his harem.
The crown of Yisrael had clearly lost its
luster.
A once good man had fallen and no
longer had the capacity, moral fortitude,
or resolve to get back up.
Now in his defense, he had been exemplary,
even brilliant.
From eight years old to fifty-six years of
age,
he was one of the most heroic characters
for forty-eight years before squandering
the most burnished of all human resumes.
Let's put this in perspective.
Abraham, by contrast,
was really never brilliant and all too
often ignoble.
The same can be said of Yitschaq, Jacob,
and Esau,
and even of the twelve sons of Yisrael.
Moshe didn't last a year before he begged
God to kill him.
So Dowd had set an endurance record of
forty-eight years in the spotlight.
before jumping out of it.
At twenty-four years under that same
scrutiny,
which is all that I have invested,
you know,
I have empathy for the difficulty of the
situation he was in.
I'm only halfway to what Dowd managed to
achieve in terms of longevity.
And perhaps it is this unique perspective
that gives me the ability to push through
this darkness and to reestablish the light
which had once shown so brightly,
especially knowing that the fate of the
world rests on rekindling it and then
reestablishing it.
Yahowah was, as we shall soon see,
badly hurt.
He's extremely disappointed.
But deep down,
God also knew that he had tried and
failed when representing himself.
He had grown resentful, then vengeful,
and would even withdraw.
He would allow his people to suffer
unimaginable heartache and abuse,
and he would cause even many to die.
And so while Yahowah's indignation was
righteous,
and while he never compromised on his
moral integrity, in some ways, like son,
like father, both tried hard,
were virtuous, and then, well,
gave up after a long while.
God remained virtuous,
but he certainly gave up.
So this is what makes the job that
Leigh and I are trying to accomplish and
will fulfill all the more remarkable and
compelling.
It is why there are no or there
are upwards of, I guess,
well over a thousand prophetic references
now that we're examining them regarding
this specific mission.
and likely so many more.
I mean,
it's the essence of the last Mashal.
It will be the subject of the greatest
of all songs.
So moving on with the story of Dowd's
midlife crisis, we read,
then Yahowah sent a dispatch to tell Dowd
all of the matters related to the war.
Yow'ab is telling Dowd what happened.
And he instructed the Malak,
this messenger,
saying that when you have finished the
entire report pertaining to this battle
and this war,
while you're speaking to the king,
if it comes to be that the king's
Chima,
venomous fury and toxic rage
rises, escalating before you.
And he says to you,
on whose account did you approach the city
to fight?
Why were you unaware that they would shoot
arrows from the wall?
Who struck Amalek, my father is king,
the son of Yerbusheth,
I strive to confuse.
Was there not a woman to cast upon
him a chariot mount and millstone from the
wall so that he was killed in or
with Tebets conspicuous?
So why did you approach the wall?
Then you have told the messenger,
you should say, your servant, 'Uwryah,
the light of Yah,
The Chity fearsome is dead.
So the Malak messenger walked and came to
Dowd and reported everything that Yow'ab
had dispatched him to tell.
Second Samuel, eleven twenty two.
Now,
we can only assume that this Malak
messenger
concocted the following pretext to the
ensuing battle, to avoid the king's wrath,
because it is clearly inconsistent with
Dowd's prior instructions,
as well as Yow'ab's preceding observations.
So the Moloch messenger said to Dowd,
surely the Gabar,
the strongest and most overbearing men
triumphed over us as individual men.
They came out against us upon the open
field,
but it came to be that we came
upon them up to the opening of the
gate.
Then those casting arrows at your servants
from upon the wall and some of the
king's servants were slain.
In addition, your servant, 'Uwryah,
the light of Yah, the Chity, is dead.
No grief, no remorse.
The tirade of toxic vitriol was avoided by
changing the story to absolve Yow'ab of
complicity and Dowd of guilt in the
successful assassination of a good man.
thereby engulfing the light of Yah.
Dowd,
realizing that he had now committed murder
and that Yow'ab could implicate him in
treason,
tried to assuage his general's conscience.
Dowd said to the messenger,
this is what you should say to Yow'ab.
There is al-ra'ah,
nothing evil or harmful, wrong or bad.
In your eyes are perceptions with regard
to this matter and these communications.
Remember the choice of verb, ra'ah.
Yahowah will use it.
For indeed, as it is for one,
so it is now likewise for the other.
The sword of desolation consumes and
devours.
Oh, Dowd is saying,
because you were complicit in my scheme,
even though I ordered you to do so,
now you were complicit in it and also
guilty of murder.
You keep that in mind.
Be particularly harsh, Dowd said,
and severe.
Be relentless and resolved in your attack
in this war against the city and tear
it down, demolishing it,
leaving it in ruins.
Cities are filled with civilians,
women and children.
Thereby you must reinforce his intensity
and resolve, toughening him up, God said.
Well,
I can tell you that was to Samuel,
and as I read through this,
I am grateful that Yahowah waited to this
time,
twenty-four years into our mission
together.
and that he waited to lead me to
this result after having analyzed that
final word picture,
knowing that it was resolved.
Or else,
had I known how this travesty was
ultimately resolved,
I don't think I could have recovered
sufficiently.
from this to devote all of my energies
to reestablishing the King's reputation to
his former glory.
But I know now how it was restored.
I know the role that we played in
that regard.
And I know that it was completely
restored.
And now I, for the first time,
having returned to the story in the
garden,
I realize that God has no concern over
us making a mistake, even horrific,
if we can prove ourselves trustworthy and
finish the job.
But ultimately, Dowd, he was just a man.
Just like the rest of us.
One put in a very difficult situation.
He succeeded from eight to fifty six.
That's forty eight years.
Before spending the last fourteen or some
portion of them embarrassed and isolated.
Slicing himself down from exceptional to
ordinary.
With the sword of his own tongue.
Ultimately,
he would be inspired to fulfill Pesach,
Matsah and Bikuwrym,
more than making up for lost time and
lives.
But someone else would have to be brought
into him for him to finish the job.
He, like Moshe before him,
couldn't complete it without intervention.
It's hard to imagine, indeed, Stomach,
that the man I've come to know and
admire through his
Mizmowr and Mashal as well as through the
eyes of his father who loved him fell
this precipitously.
Dowd was telling the man who obviously
knew better that there was nothing wrong
with setting men up to die for his
indulgence.
The most heinous and appalling episode in
his life wasn't to be perceived as evil,
as raw, much less even wrong.
Or else, of course,
the people would turn on the king and
do to him what he has done to
the light of Yah.
And in those words,
at least for a time,
the greater luminary ceased to shine.
Flame had gone dark.
Dowd was, of course,
blackmailing his general.
He said that the sword of conscience and
confession would cut both ways,
devouring the king and his executioner.
They were in this together.
Both compromised.
Then for bad measure,
the man who was lounging around,
drinking to excess, sleeping around,
said to the man wielding his sword that
he should man up, intensify his resolve,
be fierce in his demeanor.
He was to rule through terror,
tearing down and demolishing the city,
leaving it in ruins.
The most Yahuwd of men had become a
run of the mill Goy.
He was what Yahowah had told his people
to avoid.
And so it would take a Goy acting
like a Yahuwd to save the savior of
Israel and the planet,
along with a very able assist.
from a woman, his wife.
There's more to the story and we will
share it in the next episode of the
Yahowah blog.
I thank you for listening to the most
painful presentation we have made thus
far,
although it will not be the most painful
of all because that is next.